# Predict Customer Churn
Project **Predict Customer Churn** for the ML DevOps Engineer Nanodegree at Udacity.

## Project Description
This project is aimed at predicting customer churn in a business context. Customer churn, also known as customer attrition, is when customers stop doing business with a company. Identifying and understanding customer churn is vital for businesses to retain customers and maintain profitability. The project involves various tasks such as data preprocessing, exploratory data analysis, feature engineering, model training, and evaluation.

## Files and Data Description
The root directory of the project contains the following files and directories:

churn_library.py: This Python module contains functions and utilities for data preprocessing, feature engineering, model training, and evaluation.

churn_script_logging_tests.py: This Python script includes unit tests for the functions in churn_library.py. It uses the unittest framework for testing and ensures that the code functions as expected.

data/: This directory contains the dataset used for customer churn prediction. It contains a CSV file, `bank_data.csv` , with customer data.

data_test/: This directory contains the `bank_data_test.csv` CSV file, a subset of the `bank_data.csv` data. This file is used for unit tests.

images/: This directory is used to store images generated during exploratory data analysis (EDA) or model evaluation, such as plots or visualizations.

logs/: This directory stores log files generated by the project. Log files are essential for tracking the execution of the code and diagnosing any issues that may arise during development or production use.

models/: This directory stores trained machine learning models. These models are saved as binary files (e.g., .pkl) and can be used for making predictions on new data.

## Running Files
To run the project files and perform customer churn prediction, follow these steps:

Ensure you have Python installed on your system, preferably Python 3.9 or later.

Install the required Python packages and dependencies by running:

```python
pip install -r requirements_py3.9_freeze.txt
```
Prepare your dataset by placing it in the data/ directory. Ensure that the dataset is in a suitable format, typically a CSV file with columns for features. Take note of the existing `./data/bank_data.csv` for guidance.

Execute the churn_script_logging_tests.py script to run unit tests and validate the functions in churn_library.py. During this execution, `./data_test/bank_data_test.csv` will be used and two temporary directories, `./models_test/` and `./images_test`, will be generated and deleted. Moreover, during this execution, a `./logs/churn_library.log` will be generated. Double the log file to ensure proper execution: All the lines should start with the  **root - INFO - SUCCESS:** text. This ensures that the project code is functioning correctly:

```python 
python churn_script_logging_tests.py
```
Once the code passes the tests, you can use the functions in churn_library.py to perform customer churn prediction. You can import these functions into your own Python scripts or notebooks to work with your specific dataset.

During data analysis and model evaluation, visualizations files will be generated in the images/ directory. Review these outputs to gain insights into the dataset and model performance.

Trained machine learning models will be saved in the models/ directory for later use. Loading a model from this directory allows you to make predictions on new data.

By following these steps, you can leverage the project code and functions to predict customer churn in your own business context.